# ASSESSMENT 4: Interview Practice Questions
Answer the following questions.

First, without external resources. Challenge yourself to answer from memory.

Then, research the question to expand on your answer. Even if you feel you have answered the question completely on your own, there is always something more to learn. Write your researched answer in your OWN WORDS.  

1. What are props in React?

  Your answer: props is essentially like a read only argument(s) components(s) of state. State cannot be changed in props.

  Researched answer: Type of objects where value attributes are stored. Read only components which are used to pass data from one component to another. Parent : child components. They allow for the flow of data in apps do be dynamic. It is similar to arguments.



2. What is a DOM event?

  Your answer: An action that makes something happen on the browser for example clicking on a submit buttom during a resgistration process. The DOM event that is happening when you click submit is firing a signal to the browser for you to submit the data entered. 

  Researched answer: A way for scripting languages like JavaScript to interact with the document. They can be generated by either user interactions or the browser. It process some form of change on the DOM that the web browser "listens" for. A way of handling events and providing information about the events to the script. 



3. What is object-oriented programming? How is it different than functional programming?

  Your answer: In OOP we can use mutable data while Functional data is immutable. With Functional Programming statments can be executed in any order, while OOP statements should be executed in a particulare order sequence. 

  Researched answer: OOP and Functional use different methods to store and manipulate data. In OOP data is stored in objects. Functional Programming cannot store data in objects and must manipulated by creating functions. While the most basic of elements of OOP are objects and methods, in Functional elements are variables and functions. OOP is good for fixed sets of operations with new things primarily being added as the code evolves Functional deals with a fixed set of things that add new operations on the existing things as our code evolves.  



4. What is the difference between a Float and an Integer in Ruby?

  Your answer: A Float is number that contains decimal point 89.0 is now a float due to the decimal point postion. Integer returns whole numbers 

  Researched answer: Float in ruby program can either a rational or an irrational number. Irrational numbers contain a fractional part, 7.0, although we read this as a whole number ruby will take it as decimal due to the decimal point. Intengers in ruby can be negative, 0, or positive. Ruby assumes the programmer wants a rounded number. In Ruby 2 / 6 would return 0, eventhough that is not true. 2.0 / 6 would give you .33 since now it recognizes 



5. Ruby has an implicit return. What does that mean?

  Your answer: Unlike JavaScript where you need to print a return. In Ruby it is not needed for Ruby:
  def oddNum(value)
    "odd" if value.odd?
  end 
  is the same as writing this:
  def oddNum(value)
    return "odd" if value.odd?
  end 

 Researched answer: Ruby will return the value of the last line automatically withoug having to type return. Implicit return can lead to some errors if it is used inside Procs. It can also cause confusion in bigger blocks of code and methods. 

## Looking Ahead: Terms for Next Week

1. Instance Variable: A variable that begins with @ which belongs to the instance of a class object. It lets objects store data on their own local scope. 

2. PostgreSQL: One type of SQL (Structed Query Language) and it's an open source object relationable database system. It supports both SQL(relational) and JSON(non-raltional) quering.

3. Ruby on Rails: Web-application framework that creates database-backweb applications. It's opinionated software, it assumes that there is a best way to do things and designed to encourage coding to follow that way. It is based on two main concepts DRY( Don't Repeat Yoursel) and Convention Over Configuration which helps keep code cleaner, less prone to bugs and easier to troubleshoot if problems arise. 

4. ORM: Object-relational mapper is a technique used for converting data between type systems using object-oriented programming languages which would normally be incompatible.

5. Active Record: The ORM used in Rails. Provides an interface and binding between the tables in relational database and the Ruby program code that manipulates database records.They include CRUD(Create, Read, Update, Delete) methods for database access.
